## What is Apache Kafka?

- Apache Kafka is a distributed data store optimized for ingesting and processing streaming data in real-time. 
- Streaming data is data that is continuously generated by thousands of data sources, which typically send the data records in simultaneously. 
- A streaming platform needs to handle this constant influx of data, and process the data sequentially and incrementally.

#### Kafka provides three main functions to its users:

- Publish and subscribe to streams of records
- Effectively store streams of records in the order in which records were generated
- Process streams of records in real time

Kafka is primarily used to build real-time streaming data pipelines and applications that adapt to the data streams. It combines messaging, storage, and stream processing to allow storage and analysis of both historical and real-time data.  


### Why would you use Kafka?
- Kafka is used to build real-time streaming data pipelines and real-time streaming applications.
- A data pipeline reliably processes and moves data from one system to another, and a streaming application is an application that consumes streams of data. 

### How does Kafka work?
- Kafka combines two messaging models, queuing and publish-subscribe, to provide the key benefits of each to consumers. 

  -  Queuing allows for data processing to be distributed across many consumer instances, making it highly scalable
  - The publish-subscribe approach is multi-subscriber, but because every message goes to every subscriber it cannot be used to distribute work across multiple worker processes. 